# 2022-01-27, pod limit reached

## Summary

A bug in the GKE resource quota was preventing the `prod` hub from creating new pods.
It said we had exceeded our pod quota even though we certainly had not.
When we deleted the `gke-resource-quotas` `resourcequota` in k8s, the pod limit error no longer appeared and things went back to normal.

This effect lasted approximately nine hours before normal operation was restored without intervention.

<iframe src="https://grafana.mybinder.org/d-solo/fLoQvRHmk/status?orgId=1&from=1654149587937&to=1654207111545&panelId=2" width="450" height="200" frameborder="0"></iframe>

## Timeline

All times in CET

### 2022-06-02 10:00 - Problem starts

mybinder.org stopped successfully launching any new pods.

### 21:00 - Team alerted

A [user reported a Binder outage in the Matrix channel](https://matrix.to/#/!FUpHWAzqkjcOgkhmHS:petrichor.me/$yvbn4wMMghzF0COGPEVckE_1i7535UL5NLRc6Xlpu34?via=petrichor.me&via=gitter.im&via=matrix.org).
A team member noticed, and a quick investigation showed that pods hadn't been launching for several hours, and begin investigation.
Team is alerted via the Matrix channel.

### 21:06 - Logger error

We discover the following log error about hitting a pod quota limit:

```
 HTTP response body: {"kind":"Status","apiVersion":"v1","metadata":{},"status":"Failure","message":"pods \"jupyter-leosamu-2dpythonmoocproblems-2drkut24bk\" is forbidden: exceeded quota: gke-resource-quotas, requested: pods=1, used: pods=15k, limited: pods=15k","reason":"Forbidden","details":{"name":"jupyter-leosamu-2dpythonmoocproblems-2drkut24bk","kind":"pods"},"code":403}
```

In particular:

```
exceeded quota: gke-resource-quotas, requested: pods=1, used: pods=15k, limited: pods=15k"
```

This is confusing because we definitely are not using 15k pods.

### 21:22 - Found a StackOverflow answer

Some investigating on StackOverflow showed that others have run into similar problems.
These two StackOverflow posts were helpful:

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58716138/
- https://stackoverflow.com/a/61656760/1927102

They mentioned it was a bug in the `gke-resource-quotas` Kubernetes object, and that deleting it caused the object to be recreated and work correctly again.

### 21:24 - Delete `gke-resource-quotas` and issue goes away

We deleted the `gke-resource-quotas`, and immediately our deployment was able to create pods again, launch success went back to 100% pretty quickly.

## Lessons learnt

### What went well

1. Deleting the resource quota object caused the system to correct itself very quickly.

### What went wrong

1. It was 11 hours before we realized that there was a major outage on Binder.

### Where we got lucky

1. The actual fix was relatively simple once we new to delete the right object.
1. A team member with the skills and permissions to make the change happened to be at their computer at 11pm their time.

## Action items

### Process improvements

1. Uptime and alerting issue: https://github.com/jupyterhub/mybinder.org-deploy/issues/611
