#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.13
# by the following command:
#
#    see README.md
#
cachetools==5.5.2
    # via google-auth
certifi==2025.6.15
    # via requests
charset-normalizer==3.4.2
    # via requests
google-api-core[grpc]==2.25.1
    # via
    #   google-cloud-appengine-logging
    #   google-cloud-core
    #   google-cloud-logging
    #   google-cloud-storage
google-auth==2.40.3
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   google-cloud-appengine-logging
    #   google-cloud-core
    #   google-cloud-logging
    #   google-cloud-storage
google-cloud-appengine-logging==1.6.2
    # via google-cloud-logging
google-cloud-audit-log==0.3.2
    # via google-cloud-logging
google-cloud-core==2.4.3
    # via
    #   google-cloud-logging
    #   google-cloud-storage
google-cloud-logging==3.12.1
    # via -r requirements.in
google-cloud-storage==3.1.0
    # via -r requirements.in
google-crc32c==1.7.1
    # via
    #   google-cloud-storage
    #   google-resumable-media
google-resumable-media==2.7.2
    # via google-cloud-storage
googleapis-common-protos[grpc]==1.70.0
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   google-cloud-audit-log
    #   grpc-google-iam-v1
    #   grpcio-status
grpc-google-iam-v1==0.14.2
    # via google-cloud-logging
grpcio==1.73.0
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   googleapis-common-protos
    #   grpc-google-iam-v1
    #   grpcio-status
grpcio-status==1.73.0
    # via google-api-core
idna==3.10
    # via requests
importlib-metadata==8.7.0
    # via opentelemetry-api
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via -r requirements.in
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via jinja2
opentelemetry-api==1.34.1
    # via google-cloud-logging
proto-plus==1.26.1
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   google-cloud-appengine-logging
    #   google-cloud-logging
protobuf==6.31.1
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   google-cloud-appengine-logging
    #   google-cloud-audit-log
    #   google-cloud-logging
    #   googleapis-common-protos
    #   grpc-google-iam-v1
    #   grpcio-status
    #   proto-plus
pyasn1==0.6.1
    # via
    #   pyasn1-modules
    #   rsa
pyasn1-modules==0.4.2
    # via google-auth
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via -r requirements.in
requests==2.32.4
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   google-cloud-storage
rsa==4.9.1
    # via google-auth
six==1.17.0
    # via python-dateutil
typing-extensions==4.14.0
    # via opentelemetry-api
urllib3==2.5.0
    # via requests
zipp==3.23.0
    # via importlib-metadata
